So throughout the course I've been mentioning you know, you won't use the source folder and node_modules folder
for doing production. We only use them in development.
So what exactly is production.
You probably know that when you are making a theme the end product is gonna be a zip file. zip file
with all the theme contents.
And then the user will take this zip file and install it on WordPress.
So every time now we want to bundle our theme for users to use.
we'll have to delete the node_modules file and the source file and any other files or folders. And then
zip the rest of the files.
And this sounds like a process that should be automated, right?
So let's do that.
Let's create a new task that will only select the files that we need to put in the zip file and compress
them and produce a zip file for users. So let's install a new gulp plugin. And it's called "gulp-zip".
So it is install it.
And I'm not on my theme folder on the command line. So let's "cd" and then paste to the theme folder and then
paste the install. Great.
So now let's use it.
So in the gulpfile "import
zip from
'gulp-zip'". And then in the paths let's create a new key for the zip file.
So I'm gonna call it "package"
and then the source
will be an array and the destination.
We'll put our zip file in a new folder called "packaged".
So this will create a new folder called "packaged" inside of it will be the zip file for the theme
when we create the task.
So what should be the source.
So we have a folder here. We need to zip all the folder, all the files and folders in the theme
folder except some stuff, right?
So I'm gonna use the ! here to exclude some folders and files.
So first we have a folder that belongs to VS Code here.
You need that. So
"!.vscode"
And then we have the node_modules.
So "!node_modules". Make sure you don't have any spelling mistakes here.
And then if this folder have subfolders like the node_modules cause we need to also tell the task we don't need to the
subfolders of the.
So you can do something like, you know, copy this and then do another one with the subfolders or there's
shortcut for this. We can we can open  here and inside of it type subdirectories as separated
with commas.
So the first one will be the node_modules folder itself.
So the first subdirectory will be nothing. It's just space and comma. And the second one will be the subfolders.
So that is an empty space here for the node_modules folder itself.
And then the subfolders of the node_modules folder. Next we have.
So I told you this package, this task will create a new packaged folder that will contain a zip file
of the theme. So
we actually don't need that in the actual theme. So we don't need "packaged" and also any of its subfolders.
Next we have the source
folder which we
as I mentioned a lot only used during development. And also subfolders. Next some files that
are also for development only, like .babelrc file here.
So "!.babelrc". If you're using GIT make sure to include the "!.gitignore" file.
We have also the gulpfile. So "!gulpfile.babel.js". And finally, we have the package-lock and package.json
which are created by NPM.
So let's add these
"!package.json"
and "!package-lock.json".
So I think that's it. we can write out task now and try it out.
So let's create a new task. So "export const compress" and  "return
gulp.src" andthen our paths that we've just created.
So "paths.package.src". And then we'll pipe the zip plugin  that we installed.
So "zip" and it takes as an argument the name for the zip file.
So in our case we need it to be the name of the our theme. So.
So "firsttheme.zip" and then we pipe it to the destination.
So "gulp.dest" and "paths.package.dest".
So let's try out this task now.
So "gulp compress".
And let's see now we have the packaged folder inside of it firsttheme.zip. Let's unzip it and make sure everything
is fine.
And as expected we only have the files and folders that we need.
All right, so let's now do one more thing.
Probably when you want to bundle your theme for production for users you will have to build first,
compile your files before zipping the file, right?
So let's create a new task here that will do that. So "export const bundle" and this will run
serial tasks.
The first one will be "build" which is this one.
So we will "clean" and run the "styles","copy", "images" etc.
And then when it's done "compress". Great. So let's run it.
Make sure it's working. "gulp"
Let's do something.
Remember the  NPM scripts here when you bundle the theme we also want to put the production
flag.
So instead of typing this in the command line maybe you can, you may forget it. Let's create a new NPM
task and call it "bundle". And it will run "gulp bundle" with the production flag.
Now let's run instead of "gulp bundle", lets run "npm bundle". Sorry, "npm run bundle".
So it run all of our tasks and the compress task.
Let's do the final thing for this section in the next lecture.